* MCMAP is designed to be efficient, especially when carrying combat gear. The style is characterized by stunning and then killing your opponent. 
* The training policy of MCMAP also emphasizes efficiency. The techniques are relatively basic, however, it  can be argued that this is because Marines have a lot to learn to be combat ready, and  in modern warfare, the focus ought to be on marksmanship than melee
* The specific steps to each technique below can be found in the [[United States Marine Corps Martial Arts Instruction Manual]]. 
# Principles
## Fundamentals 
* Three regions of combat engagement
	* **Long range** - allows engagement with a rifle, a bayonet, or weapons of opportunity
	* **Mid-range** - allows engagement with knives, punches or kicks 
	* **Short range** - allows for grappling and grabbing. 
* Target areas that are easily accessible
	* The head - especially the eyes, temple, nose, ears, and jaw. Massive damage to the skull is lethal.
	* Neck - vital blood vessels, the trachea, upper spine 
	* Torso - clavicle, ribs, solar plexus, internal organs, spine 
	* Groin 
	* Extremities - for immobilizing a limb. 
* **Warrior Stance**: Feet Apart, Hands Up, Elbows In, Chin Down. 

* Movement is necessary to gain an advantage over the enemy. Movement is made in approximately 45 degree angles for maximum effect.
* *The key is to be relaxed*. Counter the natural tendency to tense up.
* *Avoid telegraphing your moves*. Conversely, exploit your opponent's tells. This builds up on being relaxed.
* The *goal is to generate power* typically through movement, but also through your own weight or the momentum generated by your body through weight transfer. This can involve using any of the following wherever applicable. 
	* Hip and shoulder rotation , useful for swings and slashes 
	* Stepping forward in the direction of an attack, useful for thrusts 
	* Moving the hands in the direction of the attack 
	* Using the arms to drive a swinging motion further 
	* Dropping your body weight on the aggressor vertically 
	* Using your knees to propel your body in an upwards motion. 
	* Driving the enemy towards the strike (for example, by pulling them in)

## Strikes 
* For punching, the following apply: 
	* *Quickly retract your hand and return to the Warrior stance to avoid being grabbed and to react to the opponent's next move*. 
	* If possible, *aim for soft tissue areas*.

* *Generate power through weight transfer*. Rotate the hips and shoulders into the attack; Move your body mass straight; Drop your body weight on the aggressor. 
* *Muscular Tension*. There should be muscular tension in the hand and forearm at the moment of impact to maximize damage to the aggressor and to avoid injury to your hand.
* *Follow Through*. A strike should be delivered so that the weapon such as the hand, or the elbow, hits and remains on the impact target and follows through the target
	* Strikes with the arms are executed with heavy hands, which means that the strike is executed by driving through with the strike to allow the weight of the hand to go through the primary target area of the body.
	* Contact on an aggressor should be made with the arm slightly bent, the arm extends as it moves through the target.
	* *Follow throughs make strikes not have to be executed at full force*. 
* *Movement*. Position yourself to launch an attack against the aggressor.
* *Targeting areas*. Pinpoint accuracy is not needed for a strike to be effective. Some target areas are the abdominals, ribs, kidneys, chest and head. 

* Strikes generally serve the following purposes: 
	* To stun an aggressor 
	* To get closer to an aggressor 

* *Never kick high* as you will be thrown off balance. 
* *Kicks with the rear leg have more power* because they can be rotated back but this requires more windup. 
* *Never hit with your bones. Hit with the fleshy parts of your body*. Doing otherwise will fracture the bone.  
* *During the windup to a kick, you are open to attack*. 

* Do not interlace your fingers when grabbing the enemy so they cannot break out.

## Break Fall 
* The aim is to reduce injury by absorbing impact in case of a fall or throw and to quickly get back up. 
* Keep the head away from the floor by tucking it in and raising it away from the floor. 
* The fall is dispersed by using the arms and the torso. Ideally, this is done by *falling as "flat" as possible*, that is, by having the whole body strike the floor at the same time.
* When executing a roll, *do not dive, allow the momentum to propel you back up*.

## Choke  
* Chokes render the aggressor unconscious by either the following methods:
	* **Blood Chokes** - target the carotid artery to cut off oxygen from the brain. This is preferred since it takes 8-13 seconds for the aggressor to lose consciousness.
	* **Air choke** - target the trachea to cut off air to the lungs. It takes 2-3 minutes so it is not preferred. 
* A blood choke will end the fight easily.

## Throws 
* Maintain balance when executing a throw. 

* Every throw consists of three parts 
	* **Entry** - should be quick and untelegraphed. The goal is to position the body to allow for execution of off balancing
	* **Off Balancing** - use the momentum of the aggressor to move or throw them.  
		* Some techniques include pushing, pulling, or bumping with the body or legs. 
		* In general it relies on the momentum of the aggressor as well as the power of the aggressor, making sure to use as little effort as possible. 
	* **Execution** - the aggressor is taken to the floor. 

## Countering
### Strikes 
* **Move** - move away from the impact of the strike.  *Prefer to move away if possible*. 
	* If you have a weapon, you can *move in the direction of the arc of the swing*. 
	* If the enemy is thrusting, move to the side. 
* **Block** - block the strike with your arms. Make sure to protect your target spots (head, soft tissue, fleshy parts of the extremities). Deflect the attack with fleshy portions of your body as needed. 
* **Strike** - execute another strike to counter an aggressor's strike.  Alternatively, perform a throw to off-balance the enemy. 

* After moving away, or blocking, try to move to a more advantageous position. 

### Chokes and Holds 
* **Clear the airway** - the first movement to counter a choke is to clear the airway to be able to breathe. 
	* Use distractions on the aggressor by striking them.
	* Soften the hold to loosen it. 
	* Apply pressure to the aggressor's fingers or hand to get them to loosen their grip.
	* Strike the enemy off balance. 
* **Tuck the chin** - tuck your chin inside to prevent reapplication of the choke. 
* Once the hold has been released, aim to counter attack -- usually by throwing the enemy of balance or striking them .

### Ground Fighting 
* Provides techniques for getting back on your feet. 
* *The goal is always to get on top of your opponent*. Do this by rolling them over. 
* If you are in a hold, you have to break free. Do this by executing additional strikes to loosen their hold.

### When the Enemy is Armed  
* *Always go on the offensive rather than the defensive.*
* Move out of the attack and block the attack. 
* Control the weapon by controlling the aggressor's hand or arm. 
* *Never attempt to grab the aggressor's weapon*. 
* Execute a follow up to end the fight. 

* *Firearm Retention* - techniques for maintaining control of weapons and if necessary, restraining aggressors attempting to disarm them. When the enemy grabs the weapon, execute a counter while simultaneously drawing. Counters include 
	* Blocking 
	* Armbar 
	* Wristlock 
	* Side grab 

* *Firearm Disarmament* - aims to disarm the aggressor. 
	* Clear your body from the line of fire 
	* Grab the aggressor's hand holding the weapon. 
	* Aim to strike the elbow or hand to release their grip. 

## Manipulation 
### Unarmed 
* **Pain Compliance** - the initiation of pain to gain compliance on the part of the subject
* **Distractor Techniques** - a strike or kick to a pressure point to get the subject to loosen his grip. 
	* Strike the joint to manipulate the joint more easier. Full force is not required.
	* Distract the subject
	* Redirect movement of the subject or break him down. This allows you to control their direction. 
	* Knock a subject off balance with a kick to the thigh or a knee strike. 
* **Joint Manipulation** - initiates pain compliance, applying the principles of off-balancing for better control. 
	* Target the joints and apply pressure to them. 
		* Apply direction in which the joint will not bend.
		* Apply pressure up to the point where the joint stops naturally in its range of movement. Continued pressure will break the joint. 

### Armed
* Used to counter opponents grabbing the weapon. The goal is to both retain the weapon, apply pain compliance, and (if needed) gain distance from the enemy.  
* *Weapon grabs can be countered* by rotating the muzzle of the weapon against the opponent and slashing downwards.  We may additionally step back to double the distance. 
	* If the aggressor pushes, use their momentum to throw them off balance.
	* Another way to do this is to throw the aggressor off balance by pivoting your hips (and by proxy the weapon) or by sweeping them off balance. 

* *Blocks* can be made using the rifle itself. 
	* Prefer to hold the small of the stock of the weapon. 
	* Block by thrusting the weapon out firmly, with elbows still bent. This absorbs the impact. 
	* Do not hit with the rifle, use the rifle as a barrier. 
	* Blocks can be 
		* High - for attacks from high to low 
		* Low - for attacks from low to high 
		* Mid - for attacks against a linear direction. 
		* Left / Right - against slashes in the perpendicular direction. 

## Bayonets
* Keep movements of the bayonet blade within a box, shoulder width across from the neck down to the waistline. *Any wider, and the aggressor can block.*
* *When turning the weapon, turn with your torso, not with your arms. That way the weapon is facing the same way you are*. 
	* When approaching a target, lock on the aggressor and move fast 
	* When closing in on the target, perform closing, rapidly moving towards them to gain a psychological and tactical advantage. 
* The goal of these techniques is to disable or kill the aggressor. 

* *Disrupt* - a defensive technique to redirect or deflect an attack in preparation for a follow up. It is a slight redirection of a linear attack. 
	* Aim to redirect the weapon away from your body by using your weapon as a tool to exert pressure on the enemy's. 
	* Do not overexert it. *The aim is solely to make the enemy's weapon miss your body*. 
	* By deflecting an attack, *we create an opening and we can also close on the aggressor*. Rely on hip / torso for generating power. 
		* When doing this, move at a fast pace but do not run. Juke the enemy (i.e.,)
		* Also, make sure to parry first and then close in. Doing the parry and thrust at the same time will cause you to become entangled with the aggressor.
		* Thrusting while closing makes it even deadlier. 

* *When closing in, thrust the bayonet so you can engage at the longest possible distance*. Do not wait too long and thrust too late. 
	* This disrupts movement as you need to stop and reverse direction to clear the blade. 
	* It puts you at a weaker range of motion.
	* It telegraphs the intent to thrust the bayonet. 

### Holding the Weapon 
* Dominant hand on pistol grip. This generates greater force when thrusting and allows transition to assault fire. Keep the finger off the trigger when executing bayonet techniques
* Offhand is placed in the handguards. Do not place it too far forward as it overextends the hand and nullifies some power and control. 
* Buttstock is locked into the hip for stability. 
* Blade is pointed at the aggressor. 

### More than One 
* The following principles apply in a one-on-two, two-on-one and two-on-two engagement.
	* **Disrupt** the aggressor's defense. 
	* **Entry** - move inside the aggressor's defense. Get within striking distance. 
	* **Channeling** 
		* Place one aggressor in front of the other. This way, one blocks the other's line of sight. 
		* Conversely, Make sure to not block your ally's line of sight. 

* Use an economy of motion.
* Do not hesitate 
* Use [[On Advantages|advantageous]] terrain. 
* Engage one at a time.
* If you have allies, stay together and attack simultaneously. Cover each other's movement and attack.
* *Maintain supremacy of numbers*. Prefer to engage to two-on-two than two one-on-ones  as each will not have the support of the other.

### Low Light Environments 
* Adjust the approach and closing speeds when in uncertain terrain.
* **Dark Adaptation** - allows eyes to become accustomed to low illumination. This takes 30 minutes. 
* **Off Center Vision** - allow your attention to be focused on an object without looking at it directly. The slightly off-center focus lets your rods (adapted for night) focus on the image. 
* **Scanning** - shift the eyes constantly so fresh rod cells are used. Move the eyes in short, abrupt irregular movements around the target. 

## Knife Fighting 
* *Always execute movements with the knife blade within a box*, shoulder width across from the neck down to the waist. A wider sweep gives more time to block. 
* Keep the knife blade tip forward and pointed towards the aggressor. 
* Apply full body weight and power. 
* Attacks can either be vertical, diagonal, horizontal or a thrust. 
* Attack soft body, vital targets that are easily accessible -- the face, neck, lower abdomen or groin. 
* Treat extremities as secondary targets -- they will sever an artery and cause severe bleeding. 
* The worst place to be in a confrontation is directly in front as the aggressor can rely on his forward momentum and linear power to create a tactical advantage. 
* Moving at a 45 degree angle is the best way to avoid an aggressor's attack and puts you in the best position to attack. 
* The knife is to be worn where it is easily accessible and best retained (for example, the weak side hip, behind the magazine pouch). Do not place it on something that can cover it. 
* Grip the knife in a natural manner with the blade end facing the aggressor. 
* We the following ways of holding the knife. 
	* *Warrior position* - gives more power. It makes use of the hammer grip
	* *Lead Hand Knife* - gives you more speed than power. The weapon is kept away to facilitate quicker strikes. The offhand is used as a shield. The hand with the knife (the strong side) is used as the lead hand for the strikes.
	* *Reverse Grip* - intended for more flexible tactical options and different angles of attack. We use the weak side forward. 


* Twist the knife once it is inserted to cut the aggressor further.
* When pulling the knife, cut your way out rather than pulling straight to cause more damage.

* We can counter attacks with follow up techniques using the knife. 
	* *When blocking, make sure you block with your off hand as well*. This establishes two points of contact. However, *Do not block with the knife blade itself*. 
	* A knife has the advantage that when blocking, you can also slash the enemy 

## Weapons of Opportunity 
* Pertains to weapons found on the field. *Anything can be a weapon*. 
* Some weapons can be used like a knife or a bayonet. But regardless, the general principles above are still applicable. 

* When using to counter an enemy's move 
	* Use the weapon itself to block the attack. Make sure it is perpendicular to the aggressor's weapon so it doesn't slip You may also block the arm if it is closer. 
	* Make sure the block has two points of contact to disperse the impact. 
	* Follow up with a lethal strike. 

## Garottes 
* A garotte is used for silent removal of targets. It will be employed when silence is required. 
* The approach and close should be deliberate and noiseless. 
* Stay low. Body below the aggressor's line of sight. 
* Entry is rapid with explosive force. 
# Index of Moves 
## Strikes 
* *Lead hand punch* - a fast unexpected punch executed by the lead hand. 
* *Rear hand punch* - executed by the rear hand to inflict maximum damage
* *Uppercut* - a powerful punch originating below the aggressor's line of vision. It can render someone unconscious, damage the neck or sever the tongue.  
* Hook 

## Upper Body Strikes 
* *Hammer Fist* - concentrates power at a small part of the hand which, when transferred to the target, can have a devastating effect. 
* *Eye Gouge* - used to attack the aggressor's eyes to blind them and so that follow up can be executed. Aim for the nose and let the hand slide on the nose to the eye socket. 
* *Elbow Strike*  
	* Vertical (Low to High) - target the chin 
	* Vertical (High to Low) - target the back of the neck. Use if the aggressor is bent over. 
	* Forward horizontal - drive the elbow sideways to the temple, spine, jaw, or face. 
	* Rear Horizontal - used when being attached from the rear. 
* *Chin Jab* - immediately renders an aggressor unconscious and causes damage to the neck and spine. The palm's heel is struck on the aggressor's chin.
* *Knife Hand Strike* - used when the target area is narrow It involves using the meaty portion of the hand below the little finger. 
	* It can be executed going outside / forward, inside / reverse, or vertically (high-to-low) 
* *Cupped Hand Strike* - concentrates power in a small part of the hand which, when transferred to the primary target, can have a devastating effect.
* *Face Smash* - same as the cupped hand strike but using the whole palm instead. Follow through by raking the face of the aggressor with your fingers. 

## Lower Body Strikes 
* *Vertical Knee Strike* - target the head, sternum or groin with the top of the knee. 
* *Horizontal Knee Strike* - target the thigh
* Front Kick 
* *Round kick* - strike with the bottom half of the shins. Strike the leg, femur, knee, calf, or Achilles tendon 
* Side Kick
* *Push Kick* - used when the aggressor is in front of you and you need to stop the attack or create an opening. 

* *Vertical Stomp* - allows you to remain upright and balanced to deliver multiple blows with either foot on a downed aggressor using the bootheel. 
* *Axe stomp* - performed when the aggressor is prone and you are standing. The blow is using the cutting edge of the heel aimed for the head.

## Break Falls
* Front 
* Back 
* Side 
* Forward Shoulder Roll -  break a fall from an aggressor's attack and use the momentum to quickly get back up.

## Choke 
* *Rear* - performed when behind the aggressor. 
	* *Figure Four Variation* - allows more leverage by using the body, and instead of pushing with the head, push with the other arm.  (The 4 comes from the shape the arms form.)
* *Front* -  executed when you and the aggressor are facing each other. It makes use of the aggressor's collar to choke them.
* *Side*  -  effective when deflecting a punch thrown by an aggressor. The punch s blocked, and the aggressor's extended arm is used as an additional hold. 
* *Triangle* - executed if the aggressor is on top and your legs are wrapped around the aggressor's waist. The choke is executed using the left knee to the right side of the neck. The calf applies pressure. 
* *Guillotine* - executed when the aggressor is trying to tackle you by grabbing both legs or grabbing your waist to force you on the ground. The choke is executed by using your arms and arching your back to pull upwards. 

## Throws 
* Leg Sweep 
* Hip Throw 
* Shoulder Throw  
* *Major Outside Reap Throw* - used to bring the aggressor to the ground from an extremely close range when tied up in a clinch, both pushing and pulling. It is especially effective if the aggressor is already off balance. 
* *Sweeping Hip Throw* - effective if the aggressor is moving forward or pushing you. It is used to take the aggressor to the ground if they widen their stance as a counter to the hip throw. 
	* Execution of the sweeping hip throw uses the aggressor’s forward momentum. This is accomplished by sweeping your aggressor’s supporting leg and simultaneously continuing to take him to the ground while you remain standing.

## Ground Fighting 
* Bent armbar from side mount 
* *Basic Leg Lock* - executed when you are in your aggressor's guard prior to them locking their ankles together.
* We can also utilize chokes.
	* Rear 
	* Front 
	* Side 
* *Face Rip* - damages thee aggressor. Executed when you are in the aggressor's guard and the aggressor is trying to damage you by striking your face and head. It involves twisting the aggressor's neck when they are open.
* *Straight / Bent Armbar from a Scarf Hold* - the bent variation is used when the aggressor avoids the straight variation
 
## Unarmed Manipulation
* *Wristlock* - joint manipulation where the wrist is rotated beyond its natural ability to twist. 
	* Execute when someone tries to grab you or to initiate control of someone.
	* Apply slowly to gain compliance. 
	* A wristlock can also be used to throw someone off balance since they are forced to rotate. 
	* *Come Along* - in addition to a wrist lock, apply pressure on the elbow. 
	* Additional pressure can be applied to the radial nerve and ulnar nerve by moving out and down in a circular motion.
	* Pushing up on the elbow in the opposite direction of the hand also adds pressure. 

* *Takedown* - sed to bring the subject to the floor to gain further control.
	* *Ambar Takedown* - a joint manipulation in which pressure is applied on a locked elbow or above the joint. Apply slowly to gain compliance. The arm is used as a lever to topple the opponent and apply pain on the elbow. 

	* *Escort Position* - used, when necessary, to transport a subject from one location to another. Grab the aggressor's arm and hand. 
		* Hand should be in the armpit, on the brachial plexus tie for enhanced pain compliance. 
		* A takedown can be executed from this position by rotating the wrist in such a way the subject from bending their elbow 

	* *Neck Crank* - involves pushing the aggressor's chin up to off balance them while at the same time, applying pressure to the neck to exert control.

* *Same / Opposite Side Grab* - use when someone grabs your wrist. Trap the aggressor's hand with the palm of your same / other hand, rotate and aim to grasp at the right forearm. 

* *Knee Bar* - applies joint manipulation to the knee 
	* *Rolling Knee Bar* - requires free arms. Apply pressure on the knee with your arms and legs. The knees are bent to maintain control of the upper leg.
	* *Sitting Knee Bar* - requires free arms. 

## Bayonets 
* *Straight Thrust* -causes the most trauma to the aggressor 
* *Buttstroke* - hit the enemy with the toe of the rifle's butt 
	* Horizontal 
	* Vertical 
	* Offline (going diagonally)
* *Smash* - used as a follow-on technique to a buttstroke, when the target was missed or to gain proper striking distance. 
* *Slash* - used to cut through the aggressor's defenses. Best to follow up with a thrust.
* Disrupt 

## Knife 
* *Vertical Slash* - use when to close the distance with the aggressor, specifically targeting the limbs. It goes high to low, using body weight.  
* *Vertical Thrust* - more effective because of damage potential.  The thrust goes low to high following a vertical line straight up the target.
* *Forward Thrust* - follows a linear line straight into the aggressor's neck (high) or abdominal region (low)
* *Forward Slash* - used to close the distance with the aggressor targeting either the neck (high) or abdominal region (low) 
* *Reverse Slash* - similar to the forward slash but in the reverse direction (if a forward slash is right to left, a reverse is left to right.)
* *Bulldogging - incorporates a thrust / slash with movement and open hand strike. 
	* While moving forward, perform a thrust or slash. 
	* After a strike, perform a strike to the face to stun the aggressor.

## Weapons of Opportunity
* *Straight Thrust* - effective for executing a frontal attack or a quick poke to keep the subject away, puncture the abdomen, break the ribcage, or cause damage to the neck. 
* *Vertical Strike* - effective for  executing a frontal attack from high to low. The weapon is brought down on the aggressor using weight distribution. 
* *Forward Strike* - executes a frontal attack at a 45 degree angle or horizontally. Movement is made in the direction of the strike. The strike itself is powered by hip / shoulder rotation going high to low
* *Reverse Strike* - like the forward strike but in the opposite direction going high to low (if a forward strike is right to left, a reverse strike is left to right) 

## Counters 
* *Hollowing Out* - allows you to move out of the away from an aggressor's attack to create space. This involves blocking the weapon by controlling the aggressor's arm .
* *Forward Armbar Counter* - effective against forward strikes. Perform an armbar once you have dodged the attack. The goal is to execute a joint lock to disarm the weapon once the armbar is established. 
* Reverse Armbar Counter 
* Bent Armbar Counter - effective against vertical attacks. 

* *Countering a Pistol to the Head* 
	* Assume a submissive posture to throw the target off guard. 
	* Grab the aggressor's wrists with both hands and thrust upwards. At the same time, drop the body and head quickly. This clears the head from line of fire. 
	* It is critical to maintain control of the wrist. Once done, lock their arm and maintain control and disarm the weapon from them.

## Garottes 
* *With a flexible garotte*: Wrap the garotte and form an X across the aggressor's back.  Pull them down for more force. 
* *With a hard garotte* - make contact against the carotid arteries and squeeze in a vise motion.
# Links 
* [[United States Marine Corps Martial Arts Instruction Manual]]
* [[Weapons]]