* MCMAP is designed to be efficient, especially when carrying combat gear. The style is characterized by stunning and then killing your opponent. 
* The training policy of MCMAP also emphasizes efficiency. The techniques are relatively basic, however, it  can be argued that this is because Marines have a lot to learn to be combat ready, and  in modern warfare, the focus ought to be on marksmanship than melee
* The specific steps to each technique below can be found in the [[United States Marine Corps Martial Arts Instruction Manual]]. 
# Fundamentals 
* Three regions of combat engagement
	* **Long range** - allows engagement with a rifle, a bayonet, or weapons of opportunity
	* **Mid-range** - allows engagement with knives, punches or kicks 
	* **Short range** - allows for grappling and grabbing. 
* Target areas that are easily accessible
	* The head - especially the eyes, temple, nose, ears, and jaw. Massive damage to the skull is lethal.
	* Neck - vital blood vessels, the trachea, upper spine 
	* Torso - clavicle, ribs, solar plexus, internal organs, spine 
	* Groin 
	* Extremities - for immobilizing a limb. 
* **Warrior Stance**: Feet Apart, Hands Up, Elbows In, Chin Down. 

* Movement is necessary to gain an advantage over the enemy. Movement is made in approximately 45 degree angles for maximum effect.
* *The key is to be relaxed*. Counter the natural tendency to tense up.
* *Avoid telegraphing your moves*. Conversely, exploit your opponent's tells. This builds up on being relaxed.
* The *goal is to generate power* typically through movement, but also through your own weight or the momentum generated by your body through weight transfer. This can involve.
	* Hip and shoulder rotation 
	* Stepping forward in the direction of an attack 
	* Moving the hands in the direction of the attack 
	* Using the arms to drive a swinging motion further 
	* Dropping your body weight on the aggressor 

# Strikes 
* All strikes follow the same principles:
	* *Generate power through weight transfer*. Rotate the hips and shoulders into the attack; Move your body mass straight; Drop your body weight on the aggressor. 
	* *Muscular Tension*. There should be muscular tension in the hand and forearm at the moment of impact to maximize damage to the aggressor and to avoid injury to your hand.
	* *Follow Through*. A strike should be delivered so that the weapon such as the hand, or the elbow, hits and remains on the impact target and follows through the target
		* Strikes with the arms are executed with heavy hands, which means that the strike is executed by driving through with the strike to allow the weight of the hand to go through the primary target area of the body.
		* Contact on an aggressor should be made with the arm slightly bent, the arm extends as it moves through the target.
		* *Follow throughs make strikes not have to be executed at full force*. 
	* *Movement*. Position yourself to launch an attack against the aggressor.
	* *Targeting areas*. Pinpoint accuracy is not needed for a strike to be effective. Some target areas are the abdominals, ribs, kidneys, chest and head. 

## Punches 
* *Quickly retract your hand and return to the Warrior stance to avoid being grabbed and to react to the opponent's next move*. 
* If possible, *aim for soft tissue areas*.

* **Lead Hand Punch** - a fast unexpected punch executed by the lead hand. 
	* It conceals movement, stuns the aggressor, and lets you get closer to the aggressor. 
* **Rear Hand Punch** - a powerful punch executed by the rear hand designed to inflict maximum damage. 
	* It exploits the distance travelled by the rear hand as well as weight transfer
* **Uppercut** - a powerful punch originating below the aggressor's line of vision, usually close. 
	* Usually follows a preparatory strike. 
	* When delivered to the chin or jaw, it can cause unconsciousness, damage the neck or sever the tongue.
	* The power derives from the upward motion of the lower body.
* **Hook** - a powerful punch executed close, usually after a preparatory strike.
	* Like the uppercut when aimed at the neck or chin. It can also break ribs when aimed at the chest.
	* Power is derived from the use of the legs and rotating the upper body.

## Upper Body Strikes 
* The purpose of these strikes is to stun the aggressor or set them up for a finishing technique using the hands, forearms or elbows. 
* **Hammer Fist** - concentrates power at a small part of the hand which, when transferred to the target, can have a devastating effect. 
	* When thrown horizontally, the power comes from hip-shoulder rotation.
	* When thrown vertically, the power comes from dropping the weight on the aggressor by bending the knees and transferring your weight. 
* **Eye Gouge** - used to attack the aggressor's eyes to blind them and so that follow up can be executed. The hand is thrust into the aggressor's eyes.
	* Aim for the nose and let the hand slide on the nose to the eye socket.
* **Elbow Strike** - inflicts damage due to the leverage. The striking surface is the elbow area. 
	* **Vertical (Low to High)** -  The target is usually the chin. The elbow is driven up using hip-shoulder rotation. 
	* **Vertical ( High To Low)** - used if the aggressor is bent over. The target is the back of the neck. Body weight provides additional power.  
	* **Forward Horizontal** -  The target is the temple, spine, jaw or face. The elbow is driven sideways using hip-shoulder rotation. 
	* **Rear Horizontal** - used when being attacked from the rear to stun the aggressor. The elbow is driven backwards using hip-shoulder rotation.
* **Chin Jab** - immediately renders an aggressor unconscious and causes damage to the neck and spine. The palm's heel is struck on the aggressor's chin.
* **Knife Hand Strike** - used when the target area is narrow (for example the exposed flesh is only small). It involves using the meaty portion of the hand below the little finger. 
	* It can be executed going outside / forward, inside / reverse, or vertically
	* The **vertical** knife hand strike involves using the body as additional weight to drive the hand. 

## Lower Body Strikes 
* Their purpose is to stop an attack or create an opening using the legs and the knees. 
* *Never kick high* as you will be thrown off balance. 
* *Kicks with the rear leg have more power* because they can be rotated back. 

* **Vertical Knee Strike**: used to maximize damage to the aggressor using the top of the knee. Aim for the head, sternum or groin. 
	* *Do not use the knee cap* as this is a bone. 
	* Do not interlace your fingers when grabbing the enemy so they cannot break out. 
	* Momentum is driven from both pulling the aggressor down and raising the knee. 
* **Horizontal Knee Strike** - target the inner or outer thigh. The knee strikes the aggressor in an oblique motion.

* **Front Kick** - stops the aggressor's forward momentum by a strike using the toes. Aim for the groin, knee, shin, or inner thigh
	* Shift weight to the non-kicking leg to maintain balance. 
	* Never extend the foot above the waist because it is difficult to maintain power. 
	* You are somewhat open when you perform the kick since you cannot change direction. 
* **Round Kick** - a kick that makes use of the bottom half of the shins. Aim for the outer portion of the leg, femur, knee, calf or Achilles tendon. 
	* The round house motion is driven by hip-shoulder rotation. 
* **Side Kick** - executed when the aggressor is on either side. Aim for the knee. 
	* Note this requires shifting your weight to maintain balance.

* **Vertical Stomp** - allows you to remain upright and balanced to deliver multiple blows with either foot on a downed aggressor using the bootheel. 
	* Aim for the head or other extremities and drop your weight, concentrated on the bootheel, on the enemy. 
* **Axe Stomp** - performed when the aggressor is prone and you are standing. The blow is using the cutting edge of the heel aimed for the head.
	* Power comes from raising the leg higher. However, this requires more balance. 

# Maneuver 
## Break Fall 
* The aim is to reduce injury by absorbing impact in case of a fall or throw and to quickly get back up. 
* Keep the head away from the floor by tucking it in and raising it away from the floor. 
* The fall is dispersed by using the arms and the torso. Ideally, this is done by *falling as "flat" as possible*, that is, by having the whole body strike the floor at the same time. 

* **Front Break Fall*** - executed to break a fall falling forward.
* **Back Break Fall** - executed to break a fall falling backwards
* **Side Break Fall** - executed to break a fall falling sideways. Ideally, aim to land on a 45 degree angle, with the arm shielding the fall. 
* **Forward Shoulder Roll** - break a fall from an aggressor's attack and use the momentum to quickly get back up.
	* The feet push to roll over the shoulder to the right hip, as if executing a side break fall but with momentum.
	* *Do not dive*. Allow the forward momentum to bring you up. 

## Chokes 
* Chokes render the aggressor unconscious by either the following methods:
	* **Blood Chokes** - target the carotid artery to cut off oxygen from the brain. This is preferred since it takes 8-13 seconds for the aggressor to lose consciousness.
	* **Air choke** - target the trachea to cut off air to the lungs. It takes 2-3 minutes so it is not preferred. 

* **Rear Choke** - performed when behind the aggressor. 
	* Pressure is applied by the biceps and forearms on both sides of the neck, along with additional pressure applied to the back of the aggressor's head using your own neck. 
	* If the aggressor is taller, bring them down by pushing on their foot. 
	* **Figure four variation** - allows more leverage by using the body as additional leverage, and instead of pushing with the head, push with the other arm. 
* **Front Choke** - executed when you and the aggressor are facing each other. It makes use of the aggressor's collar to choke them.

## Throws 
* Brings the aggressor to the floor to gain a tactical advantage.
* It is important to control your own balance while preventing the aggressor from countering or escaping. 
* Every throw consists of three parts 
	* **Entry** - should be quick and untelegraphed. The goal is to position the body to allow for execution of off balancing
	* **Off Balancing** - use the momentum of the aggressor to move or throw them.  
		* Some techniques include pushing, pulling, or bumping with the body or legs. 
		* In general it relies on the momentum of the aggressor as well as the power of the aggressor, making sure to use as little effort as possible. 
	* **Execution** - the aggressor is taken to the floor. 

* **Leg Sweep** - in a standing position, sweep the aggressor's leg with your feet, using the aggressor's arm as a lever. 
* **Hip Throw** - used when the aggressor is moving towards or pushing you. It makes use of the a aggressor's forward momentum to throw them off balance by grabbing them, lifting them, and throwing them over your shoulder. 
# Counters 
### Strikes 
* **Move** - move away from the impact of the strike.  *Prefer to move away if possible*. 
* **Block** - block the strike with your arms. Make sure to protect your target spots (head, soft tissue, fleshy parts of the extremities). Deflect the attack with fleshy portions of your body as needed. 
* **Strike** - execute another strike to counter an aggressor's strike.  Alternatively, perform a throw to off-balance the enemy. 

* After moving away, or blocking, try to move to a more advantageous position. 

### Chokes and Holds 
* **Clear the airway** - the first movement to counter a choke is to clear the airway to be able to breathe. 
	* Use distractions on the aggressor by striking them.
	* Soften the hold to loosen it. 
	* Apply pressure to the aggressor's fingers or hand to get them to loosen their grip.
	* Strike the enemy off balance. 
* **Tuck the chin** - tuck your chin inside to prevent reapplication of the choke. 
* Once the hold has been released, aim to counter attack -- usually by throwing the enemy of balance or striking them .

# Manipulation 
## Unarmed 
* **Pain Compliance** - the initiation of pain to gain compliance on the part of the subject
* **Distractor Techniques** - a strike or kick to a pressure point to get the subject to loosen his grip. 
	* Strike the joint to manipulate the joint more easier. Full force is not required.
	* Distract the subject
	* Redirect movement of the subject or break him down. This allows you to control their direction. 
	* Knock a subject off balance with a kick to the thigh or a knee strike. 
* **Joint Manipulation** - initiates pain compliance, applying the principles of off-balancing for better control. 
	* Target the joints and apply pressure to them. 
		* Apply direction in which the joint will not bend.
		* Apply pressure up to the point where the joint stops naturally in its range of movement. Continued pressure will break the joint. 
	* **Wristlock** - joint manipulation where the wrist is rotated beyond its natural ability to twist. 
		* Execute when someone tries to grab you or to initiate control of someone.
		* Apply slowly to gain compliance. 
		* A wristlock can also be used to throw someone off balance since they are forced to rotate. 
		* **Come Along** - in addition to a wrist lock, apply pressure on the elbow. 

	* **Takedown** - sed to bring the subject to the floor to gain further control.
		* A come along wrist cuff can be used as a precursor to a takedown by pulling the target by their wrist. After taking them down, apply pressure to the target's back and put their hands at the center of their backs.

	* **Ambar Takedown** - a joint manipulation in which pressure is applied on a locked elbow or above the joint. Apply slowly to gain compliance.
		* The arm is used as a lever to topple the opponent and apply pain on the elbow. 

	* **Escort Position** - used, when necessary, to transport a subject from one location to another. Grab the aggressor's arm and hand. 
		* Hand should be in the armpit, on the brachial plexus tie for enhanced pain compliance. 
		* A takedown can be executed from this position by rotating the wrist in such a way the subject from bending their elbow 

## Armed
* Used to counter opponents grabbing the weapon. The goal is to both retain the weapon, apply pain compliance, and (if needed) gain distance from the enemy.  
* *Weapon grabs can be countered* by rotating the muzzle of the weapon against the opponent and slashing downwards.  We may additionally step back to double the distance. 
	* If the aggressor pushes, use their momentum to throw them off balance.
	* Another way to do this is to throw the aggressor off balance by pivoting your hips (and by proxy the weapon) or by sweeping them off balance. 

* *Blocks* can be made using the rifle itself. 
	* Prefer to hold the small of the stock of the weapon. 
	* Block by thrusting the weapon out firmly, with elbows still bent. This absorbs the impact. 
	* Do not hit with the rifle, use the rifle as a barrier. 
	* Blocks can be 
		* High - for attacks from high to low 
		* Low - for attacks from low to high 
		* Mid - for attacks against a linear direction. 
		* Left / Right - against slashes in the perpendicular direction. 

# Bayonets 
* Keep movements of the bayonet blade within a box, shoulder width across from the neck down to the waistline. *Any wider, and the aggressor can block.*
* The goal of these techniques is to disable or kill the aggressor. 

* **Straight Thrust** - the deadliest technique. It causes the most trauma to the aggressor. 
	* The blade is thrust forward with additional momentum provided by the legs. 
* **Horizontal Buttstroke** - is used to weaken a defense by striking the enemy with the toe of the rifle's butt.
	* Best executed after a thrust, but should always be followed by a slash or thrust. 
	* The momentum comes from rotation of the hip and shoulder as well as the swinging motion of the arms.
* **Vertical Buttstroke** - similar to the horizontal buttstroke but the strike runs vertically, going upwards.
* **Smash** - used as a follow-on technique to a buttstroke, when the target was missed or to gain proper striking distance. 
	* The goal is to strike the enemy with the buttstock of the rifle. When retracting, step forward and close the distance. 
	* Momentum comes from thrusting the rifle's butt to the aggressor.
* **Slash** - used to cut through the aggressor's defenses. Best to follow up with a thrust.
	* The motion involves a diagonal cut (left to right) through the target. Power is generated by stepping with the left foot when slashing, and bringing the right foot back up. 
* **Disrupt** - a defensive technique to redirect or deflect an attack in preparation for a follow up. It is a slight redirection of a linear attack. 
	* Aim to redirect the weapon away from your body by using your weapon as a tool to exert pressure on the enemy's. Add additional momentum with hip and shoulder rotation.
	* Do not overexert it. *The aim is solely to make the enemy's weapon miss your body*. 
	* By deflecting an attack, *we create an opening and we can also close on the aggressor*. Rely on hip / torso for generating power. 
		* When doing this, move at a fast pace but do not run. Juke the enemy (i.e.,)
		* Also, make sure to parry first and then close in. Doing the parry and thrust at the same time will cause you to become entangled with the aggressor.
		* Thrusting while closing makes it even deadlier. 

# Knife 
* Causes trauma and damage to an aggressor by attacking soft body vital targets with a knife. 
### General Principles 
* Always execute movements with the knife blade within a box, shoulder width across from the neck down to the waist. A wider sweep gives more time to block. 
* Keep the knife blade tip forward and pointed towards the aggressor. 
* Apply full body weight and power. 
* Attacks can either be vertical, diagonal, horizontal or a thrust. 
* Attack soft body, vital targets that are easily accessible -- the face, neck, lower abdomen or groin. 
* Treat extremities as secondary targets -- they will sever an artery and cause severe bleeding. 
* The worst place to be in a confrontation is directly in front as the aggressor can rely on his forward momentum and linear power to create a tactical advantage. 
* Moving at a 45 degree angle is the best way to avoid an aggressor's attack and puts you in the best position to attack. 
* The knife is to be worn where it is easily accessible and best retained (for example, the weak side hip, behind the magazine pouch). Do not place it on something that can cover it. 
* Grip the knife in a natural manner (hammer grip) with the blade end facing the aggressor. 
### Techniques 
* **Vertical Slash** - use when to close the distance with the aggressor. 
* **Vertical Thrust** - more effective because of damage potential. 

# Links 
* [[United States Marine Corps Martial Arts Instruction Manual]]
* [[Weapons]]