* A building or town will only be alive to the extent that it is governed by the timeless way. 
	* It is powerful and fundamental -- any building can be made as beautiful as any place with the timeless way. 
	* The timeless way is at the core of any successful project. It has existed throughout history. It is the one, invariant process that allows things to come alive.
	* *Even if it is invariant, it does not mean that it is mechanical. Instead, it helps us realize processes that are intrinsically within every human.*
	* Such a method is [[Complex Systems|emergent]] in nature. It is not bound by any mechanistic rules that we may impose but arises naturally. 
	* The timeless way involves learning the discipline that teaches us our relationship within nature, and then giving it up to act as nature does.

* The timeless way is the process that brings *order out of nothing but ourselves*; it  cannot be attained, but it will happen on its own accord, if we will only let it.

* It involves the following:
	* A way of looking at things (patterns)
	* A way of understanding how these things come about. 

* It is the pattern languages that we find the way to create the structures around us. *It is not expertise that is required, rather a pattern language that is alive and used extensively*
	* Buildings are the result of a myriad of smaller acts.
	* Yet, this process is not chaotic. It hinges on both creation and repair -- both making structures and correcting any mistakes. *The creative process is always in flux*.
	* The self-correcting nature is due to the fact that everything is [[Characterizing Systems|systemic and interconnected]].

# Incorporating The Way in Design
* [[Design]] is often thought of as a process of synthesis where the whole is created by creating together parts. But *it is impossible to form anything natural using preformed parts*.
	* It is impossible for modular parts to create something unique and alive. 
	* Each part must be modified in the process of creating the structure.  *Each part must be modified within the context of the larger whole*
	* A design is generated by a sequence of patterns, and following this sequence always has the end whole in mind. 

* First, lay out the patterns that we would like to incorporate into the structure. This constitutes the language.
* And in laying out the patterns in sequence, we must imagine it as if we were laying out the most wonderful instance of that pattern in the world. *This is how we reify the pattern and concretely bring it to life*.
	* *It is only when one takes the pattern seriously that they can bring it to life*. All it takes is bringing it to mind.
	* The mind is a medium within which the creative spark that jumps between the pattern and the world can happen. *Let the patterns form themselves*
	* Importantly, *we must focus on one pattern at a time*. We cannot fully realize one pattern if we are worried about the next pattern in the sequence. *Indeed, we need not worry about patterns breaking other patterns because we can simply transform these patterns*
	* When one pays attention to each pattern, we can let it have its fully intensity.
* *In following the way, the design can be done completely in the mind.*  In the mind, representation is very fluid. 
	* The representation is rooted in language and you become the medium in which the patterns come to life.
	* The language itself is fluid. It can change based on both the ideal and the reality of things.
	* The design cannot be made alive if it is made concrete immediately. Making it concrete suggests a "final" form that is inflexible. 
* When realizing the design and building the actual structure, the patterns operate in a similar way, except not on a mental image but on physical objects.
	* Importantly, *the essential character of a structure can only be retained if it is built in the same way it is designed* -- in a sequential and linguistic way that lets the structure emerge on its own, or in such a way that the details in the design are carried through. 
	* *It is alright to have standardized design specifications as long as we are flexible* and in reifying the design, we allow the structure to adapt to its surroundings.
	* The structure, by the end, has a certain roughness, but it is full of feeling and it forms a whole. 

* *No structure is ever perfect*. Our designs are never accurate. Thus, *we must adapt the structure to real events*. 
	* When things are first built, the gaps between the parts are often left un-whole. As designers, we must address these gaps. 
	* In [[details/creativity/design/DOET/Design Thinking|In the process of iterating]] we address issues in a practical manner, and in repairing these issues, we end up giving the structure a richer character. 
	* *Repair is not about reverting something to its original state. It is a transformative process* which creates a different whole.
	* The process of repair is powerful because it can make larger and more complex structures. It fills in the gaps.

* For larger structures and larger projects, the design is not a byproduct of one person or a coherent team, but millions of individual acts.
	* Yet, *larger structures emerge naturally*.
	* Patterns emerge because of individual acts that are repeated. Yet, each larger pattern is unique as it is dynamically shaped by many smaller patterns.
	* Smaller units act individually and generate larger units. Hence, larger structures emerge because of a notion of [[Characterizing Systems|hierarchy]].
	* *Larger structures that are alive, therefore, cannot be designed or planned. It emerges*.

# Timelessness
* People, without realizing it, fall back to the same patterns over and over again
* A structure's character is marked by its underlying patterns. 
* Timeless structurers are marked by a sense of differentiation, but more importantly, *by a balance of order and disorder*.
	* And it is marked, in feeling, by a sharpness and a freedom and a sleepiness which happens everywhere when people are free in their hearts.
	* *It is not necessarily complicated nor simple*.
	* It comes from the fact that every part is a whole [^systemness]
* *This character emerges whenever any part of the world is healed*.
	* When gaps are filled in and there are no clear divisions between levels of the structure. 
	* Every part is integral to the whole.
* *This character cannot be generated or designed*. It simply emerges as a consequence of internal and external forces. It is natural. *The timelessness is a byproduct of nature's timelessness*

* *Timelessness is only achieved if we are egoless*
	* The quality cannot be achieved if they are made to convey some image to the outside world. 
	* The quality can only be achieved if we do not [[Stoicism|think of how the world will perceive our work]]. They simply are.
	* We can never design something timeless if we have an image in mind. *Start with nothing and let the patterns emerge* 

[^systemness]: Every part is, in itself, a system. Every part is a subsystem of the whole.

# Topics
* [[The Nameless Quality]]
* [[The Language of Patterns]]
* [[Pattern Structure]]
# Links
* [[The Timeless Way of Building by Christopher Alexander]] 
	* Ch. 21 - 26 - gives a demonstration for how to design a building