* An additive [[Subgroup]] $N$ of a [[Fundamental Constructs of Ring Theory|ring]] $R$ is called an **Ideal** if it satisfies $\forall a,b\in R$
  $$
  \begin{split}
  aN\subseteq N\\
  Nb \subseteq N
  \end{split}
  $$
	* This is analogous to the formulation for [[Normal Group|normal groups]] in the sense that ideals can be used to construct [[Factor Ring|factor rings]]. 
	* *Intuition*: Ideals generalize the notion of sets of multiples. In particular, consider how any integer $k$ multiplied to a multiple of $n$ is also a multiple of $n$.
	  
	  In the same vein, any ring element $a\in R$ multiplied (whether right or left) to an element of the ideal is also an element of the ideal.

* Every nonzero ring $R$ has at least two ideals -- the **improper ideal** $R$ and the trivial ideal $\{0\}$

* (*Fraleigh e26.22*) Let $N$ be an ideal of $R$ and $\phi:R\to R'$ a [[Ring Homomorphism]]. Then $\phi(N)$ is an ideal of $\phi(R)$ although it need not be an ideal of $R'$
  
  Also if $N'$ is an ideal of either $\phi(R)$ or $R'$, then $\phi^{-1}(N')$ is also an ideal of $R$.

* (*Fraleigh e26.27*) The intersection of ideals of ring $R$ is also an ideal of $R$. 

* A **maximal ideal** of a ring $R$ is an ideal $M\ne R$ such that there is no proper ideal $N$ of $R$ properly containing $M$.

* (*Fraleigh 27.9*) Let $R$ be a [[Commutative Ring]] with [[Ring with Unity|unity]]. Then $M$ is a maximal ideal of $R$ if and only if $R/M$ is a field
	* *Proof*: In the forward direction,  any additive coset $a+M\in R/M$ where $a\notin M$ must have a multiplicative inverse. Otherwise we can construct a non-proper ideal containing the maximal ideal $M$.
	  
	  In the converse direction, if $R/M$ is a field, Let $N$ be an ideal, then if $M\subset N \subset R$, we have that using the canonical homomorphism $\gamma(N)$ is an ideal of $R/M$. It contains the zero ideal $\set{M}$ which is a contradiction since fields only have two ideals.

* An ideal $N\ne R$ in commutative ring $R$ is a **prime ideal** if 
  $$
  ab\in N \implies a\in N \vee b\in N
  $$
	* The motivation behind this definition is that the factor ring $R/N$ will be an [[Integral Domain]] if and only if $N$ is a prime ideal.
	  $$
	  (a+b)(b+N)=N\implies a+N=N \vee b + N = N
	  $$
	  That is $R/N$ has no divisors of $0$.
	  See more in (*Fraleigh 27.15*)
	* *Intuition*: Another way to look at this is as a generalization of [[Number Theory|Euclid's Lemma for primes]].  We can state is as follows
	  
	  If $ab$ is a part of the prime ideal (i.e., $ab$ is "prime"), then either $a$ is in the prime ideal or $b$ is in the prime ideal (i.e., either $a$ or $b$ are "prime"). 

* (*Fraleigh 27.16*) Every maximal ideal in a commutative ring $R$ with unity is a prime ideal.
	* *Proof*:  If $N$ is a maximal ideal, then $R/N$ is a field, which is an integral domain and therefore maximal.
	* *Intuition*: A concrete example of this is found in $\mathbb{Z}$. Consider $pk\mathbb{Z}$ where $p$ is a prime.  It is easy to verify that it is an ideal. However, it is not maximal. In fact $p\mathbb{Z}$ is maximal. It contains all multiples of prime $p$ and clearly $pk\mathbb{Z}$ for all $k\in\mathbb{Z}$.. It is also a prime ideal. 

* (*Fraleigh e27.24*) For a finite commutative ring with unity $R$, every prime ideal is a maximal ideal. 

* If $R$ is a commutative ring with unity and $a\in R$, the ideal of all multiples of $a$ is called the **principal ideal generated by $a$** defined as 
  $$
  \braket{a} = \set{ra \mid r\in R}
  $$
  An ideal is called a **principal ideal** if $N=\braket{a}$ for some $a\in R$. That is *it is an ideal generated by exactly one element*
	* *Intuition*: We can think of a principal ideal $\braket{\alpha}$ as the set of "multiples" of $\alpha$
	* Every ideal of $\mathbb{Z}$ is a principal ideal.
	* If we have $a_1,\dots, a_r\in R$ then we denote the ideal generated by these as
	  $$
	  \braket{a_1,\dots,a_r} = \set{c_1a_1 +\dots +c_rf_r \mid c_i \in R}
	  $$


# Topics
* [[Ideal Arithmetic]]
* [[Factor Ring]]
* [[Groebner Basis]]

# Links
* [[A First Course in Abstract Algebra 7th Edition by Fraleigh|Fraleigh]]